- [Instructor] Now that we have discussed
some of the most common decomposition patterns,
we need to talk for a bit about how to get there
from a legacy system.
So, let's talk about the strangler pattern
from a high level concept point of view.
It really is a simple pattern
as long as you can plan appropriately.
The idea behind the pattern as a whole,
is start with your monolith
and then essentially strangling your dependencies off of it.
You shard your services off piece by piece,
into new microservice endpoints,
point the dependency to the new microservice,
and eventually, deprecate the functionality
out of your monolith, once all of the dependencies
are weaned off of it or strangled.
You can break your services off at the API layer first,
by building out the API and underlying service,
and then, moving the database itself behind it,
assuming it's a data domain service
that you are sharding, of course.
You can likewise start at the data store itself
and move the domains out and then traverse up the tree
to the business processes, and so on,
depending on which part of your system
is causing the most pain,
be it the database or the API itself will help you determine
which of these two strategies to employ.
Essentially, both are the same.
You're carving functionality out of the monolith
and replace it with a properly designed
microservice artifact within your system.
You move the processing to the new microservice
and eventually, your monolith has strangled away.
Okay, so, let's look at the bottom up type
of strangling a monolith.
Now, this of course, is going to be a very simple example,
but we're going to start with our monolith.
It has a couple of clients and a database.
Now, within our monolith,
we identify two business processes within it.
We then define three distinct data access areas
that can be defined as data domains.
In the bottoms up approach,
where we will use a single service database design,
and don't worry about that term,
we're going to talk about it later.
But for now, just know that each data domain
gets its own database.
But we don't want to do it all at once.
First thing we need to do,
is we need to build a single new instance database.
Next, we need to build our data domain.
Of course, at some point here,
we will need to sync the data and keep it in sync,
but that's beyond the scope of this course.
Now, we move our client over to use this data domain.
It's important to note that it may still communicate
with the monolith for other purposes.
So for now, we're going to leave that link in place.
Once all the data is moved over and the usage
from all clients are gone from the monolith,
we can remove the data access block
and the data from the original database,
as well as all of our syncing logic
that we have put in place.
Now, we're going to migrate a business process
and we'll start by building out the service
as we previously talked about.
For the purpose of this business process,
we need to have a couple of data domains.
So, we'll go ahead and move one other one over
and build out a new business process
to consume both of them.
Once again, we connect the client to our business process.
Now, in this example,
we will actually remove the calls to the monolith
from the client and all the internal code can be deprecated.
Eventually, with this pattern,
you will strangle the monolith completely
from being consumed from clients, and at that point,
the monolith itself can be deprecated.